Typical protocols for Internet
of Things devices are M,
QTT, and websockets. However,
local networks of field devices may
natively require use of alternative
communication protocols to operate.
Here is a list of popular open
protocols required for operating
systems in the built environment.
An open protocol is a protocol that
has been published under a license
that allows anyone to use them.
Bacnet is supported by ASHRAE and a
very popular protocol for building
management systems into installations.
Modbus LON works and Kanex are also
Internet protocols developed specifically
for building management systems.
Mbus is a protocol used for
metering and the Dali protocol is
designed for the specific purpose
of controlling lighting systems.
OPC is an older Internet Protocol that
was developed for process control.
Where field devices do not natively
support Internet of Things protocols,
it is possible to convert device
information for forwarding over public
networks where open protocols are applied.
However, some systems may operate
on proprietary protocols that are
specific to manufacture and make
political conversion very difficult.
This has implications for device
lifecycle management and agility
and adoption of new technologies.